CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 25-year-old male with epilepsy, ?several episodes of unresponsiveness lasting five to ten minutes found unconscious and foaming at the mouth.
MEDICATIONS: Phenytoin.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz, 20 to 30 uV posterior dominant rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Hyperventilation is performed early on in the record, producing an increase in the amplitude of the background, as well as a small amount of background theta. Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation of the alpha rhythm with some rhythmic central theta.  Photic stimulation starts to elicit subtle focal slowing from the left temporal region.  This gradually evolves into 3 Hz stimulation, becoming a bit more prominent at that time with a clear burst of rhythmic, high amplitude, sharply contoured delta from the left hemisphere with an unusual field including left hemisphere, centrotemporal, and frontotemporal.  The activity comes and goes during photic stimulation at 13 Hz and 9 Hz and may have been triggered by the initial photic, but seems to be on a pattern that is different with the intermittent photic.  The patient remains comfortable with this intermittent rhythmic sharply contoured periodic delta from the left hemisphere with a generous field of spread and an underlying sharp wave. The patient is resting comfortably, but he starts to turn his head from side to side at 14:52:12, although the onset of the EEG change is at 14:51:28.  At one point, he says “uhm, uhm,” but there is no additional testing.  The electrical discharge is over at 14:52:39 and the patient shifts restlessly, but not in any specific fashion.  He scratches behind his ears and rubs his arm, and the patient was told not to do this during this test; therefore, it is not clear that he is confused versus just some automatic behavior.
HR:  90 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Left hemispheric seizure occurring during photic stimulation with a broad field of spread including the centrotemporal regions.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This tracing is diagnostic of a partial mechanism for epilepsy.  Correlation with imaging is recommended.  Additional evaluation of this patient is important as this behaviorally was a very subtle seizure and would not have been identified without actual direct visualization of the EEG.




