CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 9-year-old girl with staring spells, sleep walking, and impaired attention. Foster child born to mother with a question of drug abuse history.
MEDICATIONS: None.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz, 50 to 70 uV posterior dominant rhythm.  Age appropriate quantities of background theta are identified.  Early on in the record, there is a burst of approximately 3 Hz delta from the left hemisphere, particularly the left temporal region.  The burst almost seems to be an artifact, but it is followed by a 15-second burst of frontally predominant, generalized high amplitude 3 to 5 Hz spike and slow wave activity.  This burst is accompanied by a behavioral change.  The child had been resting comfortably.   She opens her eyes almost as if she is startled, with a quick jerk.  In addition, she has involuntary movements for the photic stimulator.  Afterwards, the behavior doesn’t seem to have been recognized by her caregiver as a seizure.  As she becomes drowsy, there is a very small discrete sharp wave seen five seconds later with another burst of this high amplitude left frontotemporal 3 to 4 Hz activity; again the burst is less than two seconds in duration.  Approximately five seconds later, there is another burst of high amplitude 3 to 4 Hz activity from the right hemisphere, similar to the one that appeared to be an artifact on the left.  This starts out as a high amplitude burst of delta, almost with a double phase reversal, and then there seems to be superimposed upon this some fact activity after 1.5 seconds.  A few seconds later, an additional burst is seen on the left lasting approximately two seconds, again with a suggestion of a poly spike component from the frontal regions and then multiple brief bursts from the left, some of which include a left frontotemporal or anterior temporal spike, which is a different localization than that seen initially.
The second seizure in this EEG occurs at 11:52:40.  The child is resting quietly. She has a burst of the high amplitude 3 to 4 Hz activity, and this burst seems to begin on the left, but is bilateral.  Approximately .75 seconds into the burst, there is a frontal spike and slow wave complex that can be seen in both hemispheres, but the delta seems to begin from there and then the characteristic 3.4 Hz spike and slow wave activity is identified.  She opens her eyes at 11:52:47 early on in the seizure.  She looks upwards and she reaches her hands out.  The tech tells her to close her eyes and she appears to be confused.  The tech asks her a question and, in fact, the patient is able to provide an answer.  The patient says “alright” when asked to close her eyes, and she is able to provide this answer within nearly two seconds at the end of the seizure.  She drifts off to sleep.  Her answer is inappropriate, but she is able to provide some information immediately after the seizure.
Photic stimulation elicits bilateral driving.
HR:  95 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Electrographic seizures.
Unusual epileptiform activity with both high amplitude generalized features and focal features.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: The high amplitude, 3 to 5 Hz spike and slow wave activity with staring suggests an absence seizure, but in each case this activity was preceded by more clearly focal activity.  In addition, there is unusual focal activity identified from either hemisphere, but the focal activity from either hemisphere seems to be symmetric. There are isolated frontal spike and slow wave discharges that can be seen in inherited epilepsy, but there are also some that seem to be a bit more temporal.  The differential diagnosis for this pattern includes an unusual manifestation of an inherited epilepsy with perhaps some explanation for why some hemispheres differ in terms of their representation of the epileptiform activity versus a localization-related mechanism or a multifocal process.  Correlation with this child’s neurologic examination and imaging is recommended.




