CLINICAL HISTORY:	72 year old male with cancer, recent evaluation for subdural hematoma. Patient was ready to be discharged when he began to have recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Zofran, Ambien, Keppra,  Protonix.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard10-20 system of electrode placement with 1  channel of EKG. Continuous seizure and spike detection is employed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:   In the initial hours of the EEG recording, the patient is having relatively frequent focal seizures characterized by facial twitching and an increase in muscle. These are well defined by the scalp EEG when they are not obscured by myself and include sharp waves in the right posterior temporal region, T6
as well as activity that builds up in the right hemisphere including C4 ,  P4, T6, 02 . The
activity includes a mixture of a sharp wave, maximum T6, T4 as well as faster frequency activity. Afterwards there is postictal slowing, focal to ultimately in the right posterior quadrant, and this right periodic sharp wave, really more remarkable in T6. The seizures are, on average, 70 to 90   seconds. Some have a little bit more muscle activity, and
some start with a beta or alpha frequency buzz. Patient receives phenobarbital, exact
dose not recorded and 6 grams of Ativan. An hour later, by12:38,  the epileptiform activity is slowing. The discharges continue, but they are not evolving as strongly. No mention is made as to whether or not the patient is clinically seizing. By3 :26 p.m., there is a loss of electrode integrity, but the seizures do persist. Some seizures start with alpha frequency activity in occipital scalp regions, but of course,  evolve into seizures,
and it is not the normal alpha rhythm of wakefulness. Seizures persist at 4 p.m. They
are seen at least once per hour even at 6 p.m. The seizures continue basically throughout the EEG overnight. By 6:32 a.m. the electrode integrity is compromised or at least intermittently disrupted. Ongoing seizures are noted at 6:2 7 a.m.
The final sections are at 7 a.m. on the morning of the 18 th. The patient has not been without a seizure for any extensive period of time. When the EEG is terminated, in fact, at 7:10   another seizure is noted.
HR:	90   bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.   Complex partial status epilepticus.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Additional EEG recording or clinical evaluation is important to determine when this patient's seizures stopped.




