CLINICAL HISTORY:	84 year-old woman with intracerebral hemorrhage, a long hospitalization requiring intubation, tracheostomy, and rehabilitation. This was followed in October 2008 by posterior cerebral artery infarct, weakness,  slurred speech, and then a single seizure in 2008.  Now, in April 2009, recurrent falls, amnestic to the event, right posterior parietal subdural hematoma,  chronic right PCA infarct, hypertension, and renal failure.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Metoprolol, Trazodone,  Prilosec, Lisinopril, Claritin, ASA, Zocor
INTRODUCTION: 	Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1  channel of EKG. The patient is animated, having no difficulty falling asleep.  This was a one hour sleep deprived study
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the left hemisphere demonstrates a 9.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm. The right hemisphere demonstrates disruption of faster frequency, particularly in the right posterior quadrant.  Occasional bursts of generalized background slowing are noted.  The disruption of the alpha rhythm on the right is intermittent and when the patient is maximally alert it  is a little less remarkable. There is an underlying focus of delta in the right posterior quadrant. 	In the transition to sleep, despite significant muscle and other artifacts, a right parietal sharp wave is observed.  This is identified relatively early in this 1-hour record. Other features of sleep include vertex waves versus paroxysmal delta and POSTS.  Focal slowing in the right occipital parietal region is observed in the transition to and from stage II sleep.  Sleep is relatively disrupted and the patient, as noted previously, transitions in and out of sleep. Photic stimulation is performed as the patient reaches stage II sleep, but there is a bit of a driving response.
HR: 	60 bpm, and Irregular
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Right parietal sharp wave.
2. 	Intermittent right posterior focal slowing, sometimes with a generous field of spread in the right temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are congruent with the history described above and supporting localization related mechanism for epilepsy.  This is the 3rd  EEG
but the first with sharp waves.



