CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 3-year-old male who fell on the back of his head after tripping on his pants two weeks ago and started seizing today.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The child is crying in the initial portions of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In the initial portions of the record, the patient is uncooperative and crying.  He is in the state between wakefulness and drowsiness with a background that is diffusely slow.  There are many artifacts in the record, but no definite asymmetries.  There is a brief portion where a posterior dominant rhythm of up to 7 Hz can be identified, but much of the time the posterior dominant rhythm, if present, is significantly slower.  The child remains active and relatively uncooperative.  The seizure occurs when the child is not moving and is resting quietly.  Prior to the seizure, the background is slow, with some shifting asymmetries, but without a clear lateralization.  The onset of the seizure is a bit subtle.  The first changes are seen at 14:55:55.  There is a suggestion of a discharge in the central region, but is actually picked up bilaterally.  There is rhythmic, high amplitude delta identified at the start of the seizure with some oral automatisms and a cry is seen at 14:56:04.  The initial cry is more of a typical baby-like cry.  At 14:56:11, he slowly extends his arms (the left arm is out and the right arm is up) similar to a sensor posture.  By 14:56:13, however, both arms are extended above the head and typical tonic-clonic activity ensues.  The child continues to vocalize during the tonic-clonic activity.  The activity starts to slow at 14:56:39.  Immediately after the seizure is over, the child returns to crying.  The overall seizure duration is from 14:55:53 to 14:56:49, approximately one minute in duration.  In terms of localization, the onset of the seizure is not well localized at all.  The first changes are really the questionable, almost bilateral changes in the central region followed by rhythmic delta activity, which is present from both hemispheres and not really localized.  By using the various filters and sensitivities, there is a higher amplitude on the left compared to the right, but the high amplitude paroxysmal delta from the frontocentral regions starts to wane by the time both arms are extended and after that, the EEG is obscured by fast activity and muscle with the characteristic tonic-clonic evolution.  Immediately, in the postictal period, the quality of the EEG is partially compromised by loss of electrodes, but the EEG is diffusely slow.  The child is calmer and quieter in the postictal phase, but is not unconscious and it is difficult to interpret the record.  The child is crying, but again there is no laterality.
HR:  96 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Intermittent, generalized background slowing for a child of this age.
A single, tonic-clonic seizure which begins with a fencer-like posture but with inadequate scalp localization.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This tracing is diagnostic of a seizure disorder.  In that the first EEG was not localizing, a follow-up study may be of use. The background slowing may be seen in post-ictal state or as part of a diffuse brain disturbance.




