CLINICAL HISTORY: 65 year old male who is presented with seizures.  The patient was asleep when his wife woke him up and he had dysarthria, but was answering questions appropriately. Shortly thereafter he began having shaking of the right side with left head turning.  Subsequently he had paralysis on the left side. Patient has history of hypertension and DVT.
MEDICATIONS: Aspirin, Depakene
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This is a long term monitored EEG which was performed from October 28, 2008 to October 29, 2008. The patient appears to be having seizure activity throughout the record which is predominantly on the right side. There are multiple seizure patterns within this record. At some points there are spike patterns that are appreciated, predominantly in the right frontal area. Another pattern is an 8 Hz ictal alpha rhythm which includes some sharp waves and a third of them is right periodic sharp activity .
At about 3:27:37 there is 1 episode where there is an increase in the right sided frequency, which is followed by bilateral alpha, which is then buried by tonic clonic muscle activity. This muscle activity involves a very distinct frequency evulsion that is distinctive for true tonic clonic seizure.  Followed by this activity there is delta activity bilaterally which then ends first on the left side, followed by the right side before returning to baseline. This episode is correlated on the video EEG by initially left head turning, followed by shaking of the left arm and leg, followed by the right arm, which then he assumes a figure-of-four position.  Throughout the record there is also some facial twitch appreciated on the video.
HR:  100 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Multiple epileptiform features that presents in 4 distinct patterns.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Given the epileptiform features that are noted both in this EEG, as well as the clinical correlation and on video, this patient will require higher dose modification of his current anti-seizure medications for better control of his epileptiform activity.



