History:	40 year old man with a history of AIDS, CNS lymphoma, now presents with
meningitis and seizures.
Medications:	Depakote, phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 11/10/2014 till 11/11/2014.  Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Early in the recording the background consists of a mixture of
diffuse low amplitude delta activity admixed with periodic frontally predominant diffuse stereotyped
theta activity.  This activity likely represents ventilator artifact.  Once EEG leads are fixed at ~ 9 am,
the background changes to very low amplitude diffuse polymorphic delta activity with underriding
fast activity.  Fast activity tends to occur in 3-4 second bursts with 3-4 seconds of interburst interval.
There are frequent 30-50 second focal seizures that are seen starting at ~ 9 am.  Their frequency
gradually decreases with last electrographic seizure captured at ~12:22 PM.  Seizures are
characterized by rhythmic 3 Hz activity observed over right frontal  region (maximal over F4
electrode).  This activity increases in frequency to ~ 4-5 Hz and stops abruptly.  There is no clear
spatial evolution and no clinical correlate.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
There is no clear reactivity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.  A single EKG lead
demonstrates heart rate of ~ 110 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe
Attenuation, moderate
Status epilepticus, right frontal, over F4, 30-50 sec sz
Secondary bilateral synchrony, right frontal, last seizure at ~ 12:22 pm
No reactivity
Interpretation:
This is a very ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to (1) severe diffuse slowing; (2) lack
of clear background reactivity and (3) focal right frontal status epilepticus seen early in the
recording. Diffuse slowing and lack of reactivity are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe
diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  There is epileptogenic focus over the right frontal region, likely
structural in etiology.  Last electrographic seizure occurs at ~ 12:22 PM.  When compared to the
prior 24 hour recording, overall seizure burden is much less.  These findings were conveyed to the






