CLINICAL HISTORY: 	A 40-year-old  woman with a 6-month history of headache and intermittent seizures characterized by a metallic taste and/or left sensory or motor phenomenon. Large infiltrating abnormality in the right temporal and central regions.
MEDICATIONS: 	Acyclovir, Ceftriaxone, Phenytoin.
INTRODUCTION: 	From July 14 to July 15, continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 1020 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: 	The patient is described during this section of the record as much more comfortable. As the tracing opens, the record from the left hemisphere is increasingly well organized. The right hemisphere demonstrates arrhythmic delta, disruption of faster frequency activity and sharply contoured activity the T4, C4 and T6.
Push button 1214 for 7 x 12: 42:54. The patient is in bed. The audio is not functional. She is awake and left hemisphere remains well organized. The right hemisphere demonstrates arrhythmic delta activity but interestingly there is more alpha
frequency activity over riding this than in previous sections of this recording. No clear epileptiform features accompany this
and if anything the record actually looks somewhat better
organized. Conditional recording before and after this section also identifies sections with either some prominent arrhythmic delta activity from the right hemisphere but others where there is some faster frequency activity in the same region.
Mittens are applied so that the patient does not inadvertently remove her electrodes. The overnight recording on Saturday night between July 14 and July 15, the patient does remove the electrodes however.
IMPRESSION: 	This bedside continuous video EEG monitoring is remarkable for:
1. Arrhythmic delta activity from the right hemisphere, improving over time.
2. Sharp waves from the right with a generous field of spread
including T6 but also the central temporal regions.
3. Generalized background slowing.
4. Some clinical events without clear electrographic change.
Because of the difficulties with this individual to push the button for all events, some symptoms may be under recognized. There was no clear correlate for this patient's symptoms, however, on at least 1 EEG early in the record, there seemed to be a decrease in epileptiform activity in association with the event which may have represented an unusual ictal pattern. The overall recording is one of an overall improving background despite the focal features and sharp waves identified from the right.




