CLINICAL HISTORY: This  is  a  64-year-old  woman  with  epilepsy  since  age  75 controlled  with  Tegretol until medication  was discontinued  last  month.    Seizure  1 weeks ago with tonic-clonic activity and confusion.
MEDICATIONS: None.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system  of  electrode  placement  with  one  channel  of  EKG.  Photic  stimulation  was performed.  This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a 9Hz,   30 to 50 uV posterior dominant rhythm.  In maximal wakefulness of testing, the background EEG is symmetric, but in relaxed wakefulness there is slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm with intermittent arrhythmic delta activity, which is most prominent in the right mid-to­ anterior temporal regions and is at times sharply contoured.  The patient has two unusual events.    The  first  has  an  unclear  onset.    The  patient  is  resting  in  quiet  relaxed wakefulness.   She begins to have a lot of facial movement and then has intermittent, unusual facial twitching with some turning of her head from side to side.  There is also a small degree of titubation of the head.  On the first occasion, which occurs at 9:55, she doesn't  respond to commands and she has this unusual facial twitching.  On the second episode, when given a direct command OPEN YOUR EYES, she opens her eyes.  There are no clear epileptiform abnormalities that accompany these behaviors, and although the patient doesn't follow commands, she does appear to interact with the technologist during these symptoms.   The patient performs photic stimulation during these symptoms and there is no discernable driving response.
HR:  78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.   Right temporal focal slowing sometimes sharply contoured.
2.   Two behavioral events, which were unusual in nature.  The first one was somewhat subtle  in  onset  with  the  patient  not  interacting  verbally  with  the  tech,  but  with evidence of following commands and without postictal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Consideration  for a non-epileptiform  nature for these symptoms is appropriate.




