CLINICAL HISTORY: 44-year-old male status post childhood head trauma with plastic plate in the scalp. Approximately 3 seizures per week, some of which have an occipital aura or are preceded by headache. Herniated lumbar disk, hyperlipidemia and incomplete septum pellucidum, Burr hole, abnormal corpus callosum, left temporal encephalemalacer.
MEDICATIONS: 	Depakote, Keppra, albuterol, Advair Nebulizer, Flovent, Prilosec, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit.  The patient reports a seizure with the nurses.  The seizure variously reported as occurring with or without headache.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: 	#1 time: 11:17. 	The patient is in bed. EEG demonstrates some motion and movement artifact. Pushes button at 11:17:12 with the nurse at the bedside. The nurse enters and gives him a code word. He jokes with her. Subsequently, when he is confronted by his clinicians regarding the possibility that this is a seizure, he does not seem to recall the event.
The patient follows commands with the nurses during this event. No epileptiform features are observed with this event.
Time 1946: The nurse enters and asks the patient, "Do you know the code word?"  The patient does not seem to be having have a seizure at all. 	He expresses concern that she may be trying to take away his oxygen.
Seizure time 21:1:14:07. The patient is awake. 	He pushes the button. He lies motionless. EEG demonstrates normal wave pattern with a bit of a breech rhythm in the right central region. No clinical signs are observed until the nurse appears at the door at 12:14:41. When the nurse appears at the door she asks him "Are you alright?" The EEG here actually has some starts and stops in the video. The patient can be observed to shake his head from side to side. As the nurse turns on the light, he demonstrates shaking in two different planes - head coming up and down, legs going up and down as well. He takes off his oxygen at 12:15:32. When the nurses enter, he actually helps them by rolling to his right side.
No post ictal features are observed in the EEG. The patient feels drained afterwards.
Next day 07/25/2007 to 07/26/2007, the patient has no clinical events with impairment of awareness. 	He reports a seizure with headache at 12:34. EEG at this time demonstrates a normal background.
Push button time 13:08:59: 	Normal awake pattern.
16:03: 	The patient is off camera. This is described as a computerized detection. No epileptiform features are observed.
Random wakefulness and sleep. The background EEG demonstrates a well organized pattern. There is an occasional breech rhythm seen in the right central region.
This EEG ends on the afternoon of 07/26/2007. 	No additional seizures or behaviors are observed.
HR: 80 bpm.
IMPRESSION: 	This is EEG is remarkable for:
1. Multiple behaviors without epileptiform activity. Some of the characteristics of the behavior with semi purposeful movement. 	For example, the patient rolling on his side to assist the nurses or taking on or off his oxygen, are not consistent with a generalized seizure, for which the patient should be amnestic.
2. Breech rhythm seen at the right central parietal region with on one occasion a question of sharp wave with concomitant head rocking movement.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:These findings were discussed with the patient and recommendations for appropriate therapy were made.




