CLINICAL HISTORY: 82 year-old woman with cardiac arrest on August 05 , 2008 . The
patient began to have convulsions on August 06, 2008 .
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Pantoprazole, Simvastatin, ASA, Vancomycin, Zosyn, Novolin,
Dopamine, Dobutamine
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10 -20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient received Ativan
during the EEG and events end when the EEG is over. This is a 33 minute EEG. The
patient is intubated and poorly responsive. It is difficult to see her actually jerking,
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This EEG shows a pattern of frontally predominant,
high amplitude, sharp and slow wave activity of approximately 5 Hz. It is present in the
frontal regions bilaterally. The clinical correlates, described by bedside examiners,
include ocular twitching.
The amplitude of the frontal spike and slow wave, and sharp and slow wave complexes
ranges between 50 and 100 microvolts. In addition, there is some frontal fast activity.
The patient is clinically hyperventilating at this time. The frontal, ictal activity
demonstrates a beta frequency evolution, typically transitioning into activity that is faster
than 4 Hz and is associated with frontal fast activity.
The Ativan clearly produces a dramatic attenuation of the epileptiform activity and the
record transitions to a lower voltage theta pattern. At the close of the record, the record
is low voltage theta. After the Ativan is given, the respiratory rate slows to 25 . The
patient is only stimulated during the seizure, but there is a little bit of stimulation at the
end, not so well documented, but the overall pattern at the end is low voltage and
relatively suppressed.
HR: 125 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Ictal pattern compatible with a prolonged seizure.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Fortunately, the seizure ended by the close of the record.
Additional EEG recording was planned to ensure that all seizures had terminated.
Although the duration of the ictal activity is less than 20 or 30 minutes, given the clinical
history, this EEG is compatible with short term resolution of status epilepticus.



