History:	60 YO MALE ATTEMPTED HANGING.
Medications:	Depakote, Versed and Vecuronium x1.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 10 hours from 05/15/2014 to 05/16/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
See above.
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuation with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal
sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Intermittent brief bursts 1-3 of generalized frontally-maximal spike-and-
wave discharges and polyspike-and-slow-wave discharges occur.  Seizures occur frequently about 10
per hour until about 11:30PM after which GPEDs are seen at 1hz which then stop around 3AM.
EEG: seizures reveals sudden high amplitude frontal predominant generalized spike and wave and
polyspike and wave discharges that begin about 10Hz then evolve by slowing down in frequency up
to 1Hz while becoming less pronounced then suddenly ending.  Vecuronium was given which
facilitated the review of the waveforms. Clinically the patient will have irregular body shaking.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges)
Attenuation
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of status epilepticus with multiple generalized seizures which
stop overtime. In addition there were GPEDs presents along with diffuse background attenuation.
This findings are all indicative of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction and irritability, which is
consistent with the history of anoxic brain injury and forebode a poor prognosis.



