
CLINICAL HISTORY:  Mixed edema, coma, now a new EEG pattern and seizures.

MEDICATIONS:  Hydrocortisone, Clotrimazole, synthroid, Pantoprazole, Insulin, Heparin, Moxifloxacin

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. No clinical information is provided.  The technologist had difficulty with the patient's electrode placement due to matted hair.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a markedly abnormal pattern, intermittently discontinuance.  There is no mention that medications have been changed prior to the baseline, but in contrast to the initial recording, which demonstrated a prominent sharp wave at the vertex, these are not quite as prominent and do seem to have an usual spread starting a little bit at the right and moving towards the left.  There are portions of the record, however, where the activity seems to build up and when it does there is a right frontal discharge.  The discharge in the right frontal region does not correlate exactly with the discharge of Cz, suggesting a complex ictal pattern.  This brief ictal discharge is seen at 18:08:32 and is not associated with a clinical change in the patient's behavior.  There are no additional notes in the record, but intermittently, this activity is seen right frontal and CZ/C4, but it is more fragmented, although clearly some sharp waves can be observed in association with this.  Over the course of the recording the overall background is somewhat slower.

No additional notes or maneuvers are demonstrated in this digital video EEG.  There is some brief bursts of fast activity observed at 4:00a.m.

HR:  60 bpm

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1. 	A complex electrographic seizure from the right hemisphere with 2 different frequencies of epileptiform activity.
2. 	Right frontal and CZ/C4 epileptiform activity.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This 24-hour video EEG monitoring session identified 1 seizure.  Careful clinical assessment is essential to put this in the appropriate clinical context as the patient may have received medications that altered this pattern.

