••INTRODUCTION: The patient experienced no clinical episodes on the 19111
•
•
He remained
awake and alert. MEDICATIONS: Depakote HR.: 70 BPM.
RANDOM  WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP:  In  wakefulness and drowsiness, there is  focal slowing from the right hemisphere with arrhythmic delta.  The patient is quite active when he is
awake, leading to  a fairly large number of artifacts. There is  some double  phase reversing artifacts picked up in the right hemisphere, some of which are sharply contoured.   In this individual with a previous craniotomy, there is a fair amount of beta activity and a very sharply contoured background from the right hemisphere.   Stage II sleep  is characterized by vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.   The focal slowing from the right is not so significantly accentuated by sleep.
On 1/20/06, the patient reports no spells during this section of the record. There are practice push buttons at 9:31, 19:47, and there is another push button not recorded by the patient at 19:47 when he seems to be reading, and at 24:24:20.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This portion of the EEG is remarkable for a fair amount of muscle and movement artifact, particularly when the patient is awake. In stage II sleep, there are vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles, as well as rare, right temporal sharp waves. Focal slowing is seen from the right hemisphere with a sharply  contoured background in the right hemisphere.  Abundant beta spindles are noted.  The record is very sharply contoured, but there are no definite epileptiform discharges from the right, although there is some sharply contoured slowing occasionally at T4/C4.  Deeper stages of sleep are difficult to identify.
HR.:     70 to 80 BPM.
Long-Term EEG Monitoring, January 21, 2006 to January 22, 2006
INTRODUCTION: The patient experiences the bulk of his symptoms during this time frame. DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The patient has multiple episodes with left-sided shaking.
He is able to push the button for all of them.  They occur at 2:00 PM, 2:54, 3:27, 4:38, 11:45,
12:15 AM, 8:15AM on the 22nd, 2:10PM, and carrying over to 5:00PM,  7:20, and 7:50. These
may have been previously reported in the previous section.  The average duration is five minutes,
but some are six to seven minutes, and a single spell is 14 minutes.   The video is reviewed  for these, and the patient  remains awake and alert for all of them.   He presses  the button for the majority of them.  He reports feeling unwell before they happen.  He has left-sided twitching.  He sometimes  puts  something in his mouth, which he takes in and out of his mouth.   He has left­ sided tremulousness  and at times a sense of generalized tremulousness.    Of note, in many of these, his heart rate increases  to 140 or 150 BPM; in some cases, prior to the seizure, the heart rate  increases  to  100  BPM.   Because  of  the  increase  in heart  rate,  the  telemetry  monitor  is triggered.  The patient reports that be feels that his heart is beating very fast and asks two people to bold him.   On each occasion, he is tested by the nurse and he remembers  a code word.  On some occasions, be is given 4 mg of Valium, which does tend to abbreviate  the spells.  The nurses check his vital signs: pulse/ox  99%; temp 97.
The multiple spells are reviewed.  There is no clear EEG correlate for any of the spells.  There is no real change in the background focal slowing.  The motor activity does not have a characteristic paroxysmal frequency  evolution, and the most prominent feature is the sinus tachycardia, which occurs with each spell.   There  is muscle  artifact.   There is also 5 Hz rocking  artifact with the patient's movements, but no underlying paroxysmal frequency evolution with the spells.  In some cases, with the degree of artifact, the overall EEG becomes difficult to interpret, but with the use of filters and sometimes  eliminating a bad electrode, it is much clearer that this is entirely rocking artifact.  In addition, on some occasions when the patient stops rocking, a well-defined  posterior dominant rhythm can be identified.  In addition, there is no postictal slowing when the patient is comfortable.  Of note, the heart rate changes occur early in these symptomatologies.
Because of some of the electrode problems, the use of a double banana montage at times is more valuable than some of the specific temporal montages.
Long-Term EEG Monitoring, January 22, 2006 to January 23, 2006
MEDICATIONS: Depakote.
INTRODUCTION: During this 24-hour section of the record, the patient  had  three episodes at
5:00  PM  and  at  7:27:50  PM  when  he  experienced  tachycardia  and left-sided twitching.   He describes this  sometimes   as  mild  twitching.    He  was  able  to  answer  questions and  follow commands for all events.
EVENT  TIME 17:06:  The  patient  is sitting  up in  bed.   The  EEG  demonstrates  some  focal slowing particularly from the temporal regions.  This EEG is remarkable for some single channel movement artifact, but no definite change in the EEG.   The patient feels  tremulous.   As is the case for some of the previous seizures, he puts something in his mouth.  Single channel artifact is picked up at C4-F4.  He sits up at 7:10:34.  This event is remarkable compared  to others in that he does not experience tachycardia. He does put a cloth in his mouth during this event.
EVENT  TIME 7:28: The patient reports two minutes of mild left-sided twitching.  At 19:48, the patient is lying in bed on his side.  The EEG demonstrates focal slowing from the right temporal and right centrotemporal regions with a generous field of spread. His heart rate is in the 70s.  At
19:48, he sits up.  He had been lying on his side with a cloth in his mouth and then as he sits up, he again experiences a tachycardia  with a heart rate in the 140s.   By 19:50:40, the heart rate is beginning to slow down.
EVENT  TIME  1 9:58: The patient is lying on his side.  He reports feeling tremulous and tremor artifact is picked up.  The background EEG does not clearly identify a change, but unfortunately, there is so much artifact it is difficult to know.  It doesn't appear that be has testing, but he does seem to have bad tachycardia  that persists  through 20:02:08 while he is resting comfortably.   At that time, no other clinical signs or symptoms are noted.  The baseline interictal  focal slowing from the right hemisphere is identified, however.
RANDOM  WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: The sleep recording is compromised  by some problems with electrode integrity and EKG artifact.   Vertex waves and spindles are identifiable. Further comments regarding focal features or·spikes are not possible.
IMPRESSION: This continuous video EEG monitoring session was abnormal due to:
1.   Focal slowing from the right hemisphere maximum in the right temporal region.
2.   Sharply  contoured  activity  in  the  setting  of  a  breach  with  suspicious  sharp  waves  seen primarily  in  wakefulness,  but  not so easy  to define  later  and which  may  be  part  of  this patient's background versus true epileptiform activity.
3.   Multiple spells, which are associated with sinus tachycardia, but without clear EEG changes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: While this patient's neurosurgical  history clearly places him at risk for the development of epilepsy, it is not clear that the spells that he experienced  during this EEG monitoring  session  are epileptiform  in nature.   Features  that speak  against  an underlying epileptiform nature include the presence of an alpha rhythm seen when the spells can be briefly attenuated, the marked prolongation of the spells, which are much longer than one might typically expect for seizures, and the waxing and waning nature of the motor activity.  The possibility that these spells are a reaction to the palpitations must be considered.  In addition, alternative possible causes for paroxysmal tachycardia including anxiety induced is appropriate.




