CLINICAL HISTORY:   51-year-old male with metastatic breast cancer and worsening right eye proptosis. Postop day 1 on the 13th for bilateral bifrontal cranial debulking of subdural and epidural tumor. Frontal sinus surgery. Worsening neurologic function.
MEDICATIONS:   Keppra, morphine, Lidocaine
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of  EKG. This is a Long Term Monitoring study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The patient is agitated and shaking from side to side throughout. The EEG demonstrates a slow pattern with rhythmic theta of 5Hz and frontal delta. Despite the history of right craniotomy the features are relatively symmetric, particularly in regard to the frontal delta.
HR: 	120 bpm
IMPRESSION:   Abnormal EEG due to:
1. 	Generalized background slowing.
2. 	Frontal delta.
3. 	Frontal delta with rare right frontal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a diffuse disturbance of cerebral function. The discrete right frontal sharp waves may have this particular morphology due to the recent craniotomy.
Long Term Monitoring- LTM -07-107
INTRODUCTION:   Continuous  video EEG monitoring is performed at bedside in the neurosurgical ICU. The patient is relatively quiet with a face mask. As the tracing opens, the high amplitude frontal delta is observed. This is remarkable in that it is maximum in the frontal region and there is an underlying sharp wave in the right frontal region.   There are no push buttons to indicate a seizure.
There are no clinical reports of seizures.  The epileptiform activity and the rhythmic frontal delta is most prominent in the initial sections of this record. The patient waxes and wanes.  By the afternoon, he was off the face mask and is somewhat interactive with his family.  This is observed at 13:13.
DESCRIPTION  OF THE RECORD:  The EEG continues to demonstrate bifrontal rhythmic delta with sharp waves most of which area in the right frontal region but with some variability in terms of F4. Arrhythmic delta is seen in the bifrontal regions. A number of the sharp waves spread to the left frontal region and FAFP2.
Over the course of the last section of the record, after midnight on the morning of the
16th, there is an increase in theta frequency activity. There is some single tonal artifact at T5.
The record concludes a 8 a.m. and at that time, the background includes a pattern of theta.
HR:  96 bpm
LONG TERM MONITORING:   November 14, 2007 to November 15, 2007.
Introduction: Continuous  video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside in the ICU. A
single seizure was reported by the team. This event is not marked.
Description of report: This section begins on the 14th at 10:37 a.m. and concludes a
8:32 on the 15th. The seizure detections are reviewed. The initial portion of the record demonstrates frontal rhythmic delta with a sharp wave mixed in. That sharp wave is present bilaterally in the right or left frontal region. The family is present during this time. No clinical signs or symptoms are observed. Despite a great deal of artifact, the areas in question with continuous rhythmic delta and sharp waves at 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.  No
one is at the bedside and this activity is abating at 12:02 on the morning of the 14th.
After this, the patient is seen to be a little bit more active. Intermittently, in this 24 hour, there is bifrontal delta with a sharp wave in the frontal regions identified with a bit more fast activity and FP1 region with clear bilateral representation  in terms of right and left frontal regions. This activity waxes and wanes and at 12:32, it is clearly more prominent on the left than the right, but overall discharge is 1 at the midline. Unfortunately, some of the electrodes are not functional. Overnight recording: There are problems with loss of electrode artifact and frequent bifrontal sharp waves in this case, left more prominent than right. By the end of this section, the epileptiform activity is fading and the background is one of theta with bifrontal delta.
IMPRESSION:  This 48 hour long term EEG monitoring as remarkable for:
1. 	Frontal delta.
2. 	Epileptiform activity most apparent in the right frontal region with a bifrontal or left sided predominance by the close of the record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:   A well defined seizure was reported by the technologist, but is difficult to identify. There is rhythmic ictal activity with delta and sharp waves but there is no indication by an observer that there are clinical correlates and unfortunately, the camera is not in front of the and testing is not performed. Fortunately, by the close of the recording, the overall pattern is improving.




