History:	42 YO FEMALE P/W SZ. PT HAS HAD 4 SZ IN TOTAL SINCE OCT 2014.
Medications:	LOPRESSOR, ASA, KEPPRA, VIMPAT
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta
activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Diffuse, frontally
predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.  Some normal sleep architecture can be seen,
particularly spindles are noted during sleep.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left midtemporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) plus are present
at T3 region at a rate of 1 Hz.  Multiple (13 ) electrographic seizures were present. The seizures
commence with a T3 rhythmic 4Hz discharge that increases in amplitude and slow down in
frequency and suddenly stop. They remain mainly over the left midtemporal region and last ~ 10
seconds  to 2 minutes. One seizure had a more clearly superimposed beta during the seizure.
There was no clear clinical correlate associated to this EEG activity documented on video. Patient
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 96
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, frequent, electrographic, left temporal, mid
PLEDs-plus
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal, mid
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  subclinical status epilepticus with frequent subclinical
electrographic seizures arising from the left midtemporal region with additional focal slowing.
These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region, and are consistent with
subclinical status epilepticus. In addition there is moderate diffuse background slowing and slow
alpha rhythm.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as





