CLINICAL HISTORY: 	Forty-seven-year-old male with recurrent encephalopathy, change in mental status, left parietal stroke in April 2007, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic state.
MEDICATIONS: 	Labetalol, Nexium.
INTRODUCTION: 	Digital video EEG is performed in lab using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: 	As the tracing opens, the patient is in relaxed wakefulness. While the patient is resting comfortably there is rhythmical slowing from the left temporal region and a seizure occurred at 9:07:40. It begins with the repetitive sharp waves gradually evolving at 9:07:45. the patient is resting comfortable and the tech asked the patient to close his eyes.
She is observing him and he is apparent on the video as well.
Rhythmic repetitive theta frequency sharp waves are observed. Testing is not performed during this discharge. Continues at
9:08:16, gradually starting to slow at 9:08:22. The patient swallows at 9:08:26 and the seizure appears to be over immediately after this time. Testing is not performed during this seizure. No behavioral changes are observed during this seizure. Intermittent, rhythmic 	FIRDA is identified from the frontal central regions bilaterally and is slightly accentuated in hyperventilation. Following hyperventilation, a second seizure occurs at 9:13. The patient is resting comfortably, not doing any activities. The second seizure is without any movement. Testing is not performed during the seizure, but that seizure is noted by the technologist. She asked the patient to open his eyes at 9:14. The minute he responds at 9:14:11 the seizure is over. Some of the frontally predominant theta starts to build up again at 9:15:50. Following hyperventilation, the patient starts to drift off to sleep with vertex waves. Photic stimulation is remarkable for artifacts. The photic stimulation is difficult to interpret.
HR : 78 bpm
IMPRESSION:	Abnormal EEG due to:
1.  Two seizures from the left temporal region.
2 .	Intermittent  left temporal sharp waves.
3 .	Left temporal focal slowing.
4. Generalized  background slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: 	This EEG supports a localization  related
mechanism for epilepsy.




