

CLINICAL HISTORY: 75 year old woman status post recent subdural hematoma evacuation with 2 seizures this morning characterized by right-sided twitching.

MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Keppra, Lopressor, Zocor, isosorbide, Avapro, Vasotec, Protonix, Codeine, Zofran, Morphine

INTRODUCTION:   Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The technologist reports that the patient had a clinical seizure just prior to hooking up the EEG.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins the background EEG includes initially a suppressed pattern on the left with periodic sharp waves in the right hemisphere, particularly frontocentral region. As the recording continues, by 3 minutes into this EEG the sharp waves on the right are beginning to abate and the postictal suppression on the left is apparent, as is generous beta. By 8:37:09 periodic sharp waves are identified, which seem to be maximum in the left centrotemporal region and start to wax and wane. By 8:40:59 sharp waves begin to emerge from the right.

A seizure emerges out of the left hemisphere, with a somewhat difficult to define onset. There are frequent sharp waves on the left at 8:41:41 which are building by 8:41:51. The seizure seems to emanate from the left centroparietal region at 8:41:52 with characteristic frequency evolution on the left.  Behavioral manifestations of the seizure are subtle in this intubated, poorly responsive woman.  The activity is most remarkable in the left parieto temporal region.

The seizure starts to fade by 8:45.   The postictal record is again remarkable for significant background suppression.  By 8:53 sharp waves are starting to build out of the left parietal region, with a second seizure following.  That seizure does not end quite as abruptly and it is over by 8:59.

HR: 	129 bpm and irregular

IMPRESSION:   Abnormal EEG due to:
1. 	Two 3 minute electrographic seizures emanating from the right parietal region.
2. 	Postictal suppression, particularly on the left.
3.	interictal sharp waves on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These acute seizures were recognized clinically and long?
term monitoring was initiated for further evaluation.

