CLINICAL HISTORY: 49-year-old woman status post anoxic injury with refractory status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote (5/23-25/2008), Keppra (5/24-28/2008),  Midazolam drip, Topiramate (5/25-28/2008)
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. This is a multi-day recording. Seizure and spike detection is utilized. The patient's medications are modified during this record.
On day 1, May 23 to May 24, 2008, medications Depakote followed by Midazolam.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Background EEG demonstrates a discontinuous pattern with frequent sharp waves and bursts of generalized paroxysmal fast activity. The generalized paroxysmal fast activity is approximately is approximate 1 second long. Over the course of the record, with the use of Midazolam drip, the activity becomes a bit more suppressed, but does not reach a burst suppression pattern.
Date May 24, 2008 to May 25, 2008: During this portion of the record, the patient remains in Midazolam drip. The EEG is a bit higher amplitude. I remains somewhat discontinuous with paroxysmal fast activity. At 10:10, the Midazolam drip is increased to
7. Over the course of the day, the midazolam drip is increased to 7. This produces a more suppressed pattern.
May 25, 2008 to May 26, 2008: During this section of the record, the patient is on the Midazolam drip which is titrated upward from 7. The patient has received Keppra 1500 mg per day for approximately 24 hours without much in the way of improvement. There are portions of the record, however, where there periodic sharp waves and the fast activity are abating in a lower voltage pattern can be noted. Much of the record shows continuous, post anoxic pattern with theta and a discontinuous pattern, but there are brief portions without this.
May 25, 2008 through May 26, 2008: No additional comments are observed in this section of the record. No additional information is provided regarding the use of medications at that time.
May 26, 2008 to May 27, 2008: The video camera is obscured during portions of this record. The electrode quality is poor. No clinical comments or information regarding the patient's medication is available, but there does seem to be eye movement. Some portions of the record continue to show the paroxysmal fast activity and sharp activity, but others show portions of the record with little in the way of this activity.
Monday, May 26, 2008 to May 27, 2008: No clinical comments accompany this section of the data. Electrode integrity is increasingly lost. Medications in this section of the record are unknown. Despite the serious problems in electrode quality the EEG at this section continues to show a discontinuous pattern with paroxysmal fast activity.
May 27, 2008 to May 28, 2008: No information is provided regarding patient's medications or clinical examination.
Background EEG demonstrates intermittent paroxysmal fast activity and an intermittently discontinuous record in this record which continues to demonstrate suboptimal electrode quality, there are portions of the record that are a bit more continuous.Other portions of the record are obscured by other artifacts and there seem to be some sort of an electrical artifact seen periodically in the record which may include and antithrombotic pump.
HR:	104 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Replacement of normal background with a markedly abnormal pattern which at least initially is compatible with a late anoxic status epilepticus type of pattern with generalized sharp activity and periodic fast activity.
Lack of good quality EEG data in the last 72 hours of the recording and the absence of historical information limit precluding an assessment as to whether or not this patient's status epilepticus has resolved.
CLINICAL CORRELATION :  Compatible with severe, anoxic encephalopathy.
Additional testing and historical information may resolve the problems described above.



