History:	80 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O S/P AORTIC VALVE REPLACEMENT,
WITH LT LEG JERKING MOVEMENTS AND LT SIDED WEAKNESS.
Medications:	lorazepam
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-30uV, 8-9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening. The posterior dominant rhythm is fragmented on the right by
intermittent theta activity.  There is intermittent mild theta slowing seen over the left hemisphere.
Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During brief
drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by
There is focal theta slowing in the right para-sagittal region at C4-P4.  No epileptiform discharges
are present.  Throughout the recording there are numerous clinical episodes of left leg movements.
These consist of arrhythmic, jerking movements without clear rhythmicity, involving the entire left
leg. Of note, these events were not seen during sleep.  The patient's mental status was preserved
during these events.  There was no ictal change in the background cerebral activity with these
events even when view in 5 different recording montages.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, right rolandic
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, intermittent diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour bedside video EEG due to diffuse slowing and focal right centro-
parietal slowing. There was no ictal correlate to the repetitive left leg movements suggesting that
these were non-epileptic movements i.e.,  myoclonus, or focal motor seizures not detected by scalp
EEG.  These possibilities were discussed with the primary care team.



