CLINICAL HISTORY:  45-year-old gentleman who had a RIGHT cerebral abscess 1n
2006. The patient subsequently had visual scintillations, seeing the entire spectrum before his eyes. He was admitted to an outside hospital with focal motor jerking of the left side of the body, preceded by those visual obscuration. Since that time, he was treated briefly with Depakote and no additional visual phenomenon occurred. At baseline, he has the visual scintillations twice per week.
MEDICATIONS:   Nitroglycerin, Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:   Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the long term monitor video EEG unit.  The patient is hooked up just shortly after a subclinical seizure in the EEG lab.  The patient, nurse, and computerized software do not identify additional subclinical seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  Random wakefulness and sleep and wakefulness and background EEG is reasonably well organized from the left with a 9 hertz posterior dominant rhythm.  The right hemisphere demonstrates arrhythmic delta with intermittent disruption of the alpha from the right and clear, right anterior temporal spike in slow
wave and sharpened slow wave complexes with variable maximum and variable fields of spread.  Some of them have a more posterior temporal spread than others.  In addition a breech rhythm is characterized by higher amplitude activity in that region.  As the patient becomes drowsy, there is more clearly a disruption of faster frequency activity from the right temporal region.  The focal slowing is more prominent.
Sleep:  The patient demonstrates fragmented sleep and is often awake during the lighter stages of sleep in the overnight hours.
Vertex waves are observed.   In sleep, at times there is a triangular shaped posterior temporal sharp wave but this has a more gentle morphology than the anterior temporal sharp waves seen in wakefulness or early drowsiness.
HR: 	60 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal 24-hour video EEG monitoring due to:
1. 	Focal slowing with disruption of faster frequency activity as well as the presence of rhythmic and arrhythmic data and delta from the right temporal region.
2.		Right anterior temporal sharp and slow wave complexes as well as others that have a more variable field of spread in maximum identified in wakefulness, drowsiness and into sleep.
3.	A single discrete seizure seen in the baseline EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: 	With the addition of the baseline EEG, this study is supportive of a localization of a related mechanism for epilepsy.  No additional seizures occurred after Depakote was administered.  Because of the subtle nature of this seizure in the EEG lab, ongoing surveillance may be necessary to Make sure that this patient is not suffering additional small discrete complex partial seizures.






