CLINICAL CORRELATION: 67 year-old man with refractory epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Phenobarbital, Topiramate.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring with seizure and spike detection begins on the conventional neurology floor on July 18, 2008 and concludes in the ICU.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Background EEG shows nearly continuous sharp waves with paroxysmal frequency evolution. The patient continues to demonstrate 2 ictal patterns, 1 with alpha frequency activity and the other with repetitive beta frequency activity. During some of the discharges, the patient is not response. He also has left leg jerking with impaired responsiveness.
Over the course of the night, the patient received phenobarbital. He continues to have electrographic discharges with jerking.
July 19, 2008 to July 20, 2008: During medication phenobarbital. He continues to have electrographic discharges with jerking. plus 200 mg b.i.d., Topiramate.
Continuous video EEG monitoring during this portion of the record is remarkable for:
1. Improving of the patient's mental status. Although he occasionally has focal
seizures, he is now able to talk more consistently during them.
2. Slowing of the epileptiform activity with some portions of the EEG demonstrating
portions without epileptiform activity.
3. Transitioned at some point to more of a discharge in the right parietal region.
The patient continues to have 2 previously described ictal patterns, 1 with alpha frequency activity with frequency evolution and the more conventional discharge.
Over the course of the evening of the 19th, the overall background improves, but unfortunately, the epileptiform activity persists in the right parietal region.
After 1 a. m. , the patient subsequently starts eliminating his EEG electrodes. Most of the electrodes remain on the scalp although there are problems with some of them on the right. There are problems with electrode integrity. Efforts by the nurses to resolve these are unsuccessful and the patient required reapplication of all electrodes on the morning of the 20th.
July 20, 2008 through July 21, 2008: During this portion of the record, the patient is increasingly awake, alert and animated although he is quite confused. In the initial sections of the record, the patient is having 1 of his 2 seizure types, the 1 with alpha frequency activity. Initially, it occurs approximately every 10 minutes, but patient receives 130 mg of Phenobarbital and the activity states to abate and when the discharges do occur, there may be 40 minute gap and alpha frequency activity is not as prominent. By the overnight recording, those discharges are again apparent.
The patient transitions to periodic complexes in sleep. In addition, this is the first section of the record where normal morphology of sleep such as vertex waves and spindles can be observed.
HR: 61 bpm
July 21, 2008: A greater than 1 hour EEG. During this portion of the record, the patient is awake. The overall background is slow with periodic complexes. There is a bit of faster frequency activity but in this study, it is not possible to identify the seizures with leg shaking.
The overall background when the patient is awake is markedly slow.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal continuous video EEG monitoring due to:
1. Complex partial status epilepticus.
2. More then ictal pattern including a pattern of alpha frequency activity with
frequency evolution with nearly bilateral onset.
4. Gradual improvement with slow background, but with periodic complexes from the
right parietal region.
CLINICAL This EEG is diagnostic of a severe underlying epileptiform disorder. Features are similar to a previous study. By the close of the record, the patient had clearly improved in terms of his ability to communicate, but he continued to have markedly abnormal electrographic findings and there was a dissociation with marked improvement of clinical exam in contrast to the EEG.



