CLINICAL HISTORY: 76-year-old gentleman found in December with a burn injury of face and
scalp with
MEDICATIONS: Peridex, Motrin, Insulin, Colistimethate, Betacarotene, Depacon, Topamax,
Carafate, Morphine, Penicillin, Heparin, Vancomycin, Lasix, Lorazepam, Dopamine
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at bedside using standard
10-20 system of electrode placement with electrode modification due to the patient's facial and
scalp burns. Clinical seizures are observed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG begins with an abnormal pattern with
a background and theta and delta. Left occipital spiking is observed. Multiple seizures are noted
in the first section of the January 11 record with build-up of alpha and beta frequency activity as
well as the left occipital spiking and characteristic frequency evolution. The alpha theta build-up
is relatively characteristic of all of the clinical seizures. Some, but not all, electrographic seizures
are associated with head turning and facial twitching.
LONG-TERM MONITORING 08-06 12 2008
INTRODUCTIONS: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with electrode modification due to the patient's facial and scalp
burns,
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Ongoing spiking primarily from the left occipital region is
observed. In the initial section of the January 12 through the 13, relatively frequent spiking is
observed and there is some subtle build up. Over the course of the day, particularly by 1350,
the spiking activity appears to be slowing down. Clinical correlates including changes in
medications are not recorded in this record. Again, the same pattern of slowing of the spiking
and less in the way of frequently evolution is seen at 1800 hours and again at 2200 hours.
At 2239, the activity begins to build up again. The patient is on camera and it is not possible to
observe facial twitching.
This section of the recording concludes at 1113 on the 13th. At that time, frequent spiking is
seen. The evolution that was seen with the clinical and subclinical seizures has slowed but it is
not as slow as in previous day.
LONG-TERM MONITORING -08 -06-JANUARY
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This continuous video EEG monitoring in the ICU
demonstrates pattern with variable amounts of theta and delta. Despite some artifact, there is a
subtle underlying left occipital sharp wave.
What may well be a subclinical seizure is observed at 19:54 with the appearance of rhythmic
occipital sharp activity in theta. Behaviorally the patient is intubated in the ICU with no obvious
head turning or facial twitching.
The majority of this data was available for review, but this data also crashed and it was not
possible to review 100% of the data at this time.
LONG-TERM MONITORING-08-06-JANUARY 15.2008
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The clinical description of the patient is somnolent. The
background EEG is diffusely slow, low amplitude with a mixture of theta and delta. There is a
subtle asymmetry in the occipital region with a bit more theta and what may be a POST on the
right, but no sharp waves are observed on the left.
As the recording continues, however, the EEG becomes increasing rich in beta and subtly, the
left occipital sharp wave starts to evolve. It is left occipital max with some spread to the right.
This is seen prior to 11 a.m. and does not build up into seizures. As the recording waxes and
wanes, there is a subtle right occipital positive transient. Stimulation of the patient is not
observed in this section of the record. In looking back at the data, there is a subtle, what
appears to be a POST seen in the early portion of the record and then later portions of the
record, there is an intermittent right occipital sharp wave.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Recurrent seizures from the left occipital region.
2. Background slowing.
3. The re-appearance of right occipital sharp waves at the close of the record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: By the end of the record, this patient is out of status epilepticus, but had a
remarkably slow background.




