CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 46-year-old woman with schizophrenia, admitted in status epilepticus on 1/30/06.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. As the tracing begins, the patient has a facemask on and has difficulty cooperating.  The technologist notes that the patient had a seizure just prior to the beginning of the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The initial portions of the record demonstrate a very slow background, almost featureless, with frontally predominant slow 1 to 2 Hz delta activity, some muscle artifact, and some beta.   Stimulation of the patient produces some theta frequency activity.  The EEG is recorded in two pieces.  The first EEG is 15 minutes and the second EEG has a total recording time of approximately one hour.  The second piece begins at 9:53:22.  In this section of the record, there is a bit more theta and a bit more beta seen in the background.  The background isn’t quite as featureless.  A seizure is identified at 10:05, which is characterized by rhythmic fast activity picked up in the right frontotemporal region with 5 Hz activity superimposed in the right frontocentral region.  It is initially very focal in the first five seconds, but is clearly spreading to the left after the first five seconds.  There is clear frequency evolution with increasing intensity of theta frequency activity, and an increase in the amplitude of the background seen at 10:06:01. Clinically, the patient is on a facemask, and appears to be looking at the video and appears to be agitated.  However, upon reviewing the video, the clinical correlates are initially difficult and then there seems to be more of a clonic jerking at 10:06:21.  The seizure demonstrates a rapid rate for tonic-clonic activity, but with a characteristic muscle artifact.  At 10:06:41, the activity is slowing.  At 10:06:46, again this activity is clearly slowing, and the seizure starts to abate at 10:06:51.  At that time, the jerking stops, but the ictal pattern continues until 10:06:57 with a dramatic background suppression.  The technologist notifies the house officer at that time.  The EEG is markedly suppressed in the postictal recording, but there is some muscle artifact and fast activity. The patient is given Fentanyl at 10:25:56.  The patient is mumbling despite a very slow background at 10:09.
HR:  __ BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Marked background slowing, which starts to improve just prior to the patient’s seizure at 10:05.
The seizure lasts just over a minute, which seems to have a right frontal onset.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG is diagnostic of an underlying epileptic disorder with seizures on this EEG localizing to the right frontal region.




