CLINICAL HISTORY: 23 year old woman, 6 weeks pregnant, with increasing seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Lamictal: Phenobarbital, Zonisamide
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient has difficulty keeping the EEG electrodes on.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Random wakefulness and sleep: In wakefulness some sections of the record are well organized, others demonstrate excess background theta, particularly in the central regions bilaterally. Particularly, in sleep there are interictal epileptiform activity, including right mid to posterior temporal, left mid to anterior temporal, and some appear to be a bilateral high amplitude poly spike component. There is generous stage 2 sleep. There are multiple push button events including practice push button 16:10, 18:55, 19:50.

Seizure: The patient is playing with the push button alarm at 07:51. She seems to be awake, but there is a great deal of muscle movement artifact. Physician enters at 07:52 the patient is confused and looking to the left. This seizure is difficult to localize because the onset is unclear, but there seems to be rhythmic theta frequency activity, perhaps most intense at T2, but in the right frontal central region. This activity is relatively prolonged, but by 07:52:24 she gets up and out of bed, and in fact she gets up and out of bed just as soon as the physician leaves, although she was not interactive with the physician during the seizure. Unfortunately there are significant problems with electrode caliber during the event. After this she is awake, but the background demonstrates excess theta as noted at other portions in the record. This is January 14 to January 15, 2010.
January 15 2010 through January 16 2010: Random wakefulness at this time sample begins shortly after the seizure early in the morning on January 15, 2010.
Seizure Time: 08:19 with the patient in bed and drifting off to sleep there seems to be a seizure in sleep with rhythmic repetitive sharp waves in the left hemisphere with a generous field of spreading, including frontal central, central temporal, T1 at 7, and involving C3. There are no clinical correlates observed with this seizure. In this portion of the record, interictal spikes and sharp waves are more prominent on the left. After this the patient drifts off asleep and there is some bitemporal sharp waves observed. In addition, there seemed to be some frontal central sharp waves noted.
Seizure Time 10:01: The patient pushes the button while she is eating. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the tech has just wrapped her head there is significant artifact in the background. The patient stops eating and she rests her head backwards. She extends her head as if she is waiting for the seizure to happen. Despite the artifacts observed in the EEG, definitive EEG changes are noted at 01 :02, approximately 1 minute into the seizure. Epileptiform activity this time seems to be most prominent in the right frontal central region and it also seems to be more sustained at right frontal central region and right anterior temporal region. During the initial ictal changes she is sitting, staring a bit to the left, neck extended. The frequency of activity starts to slow. The nurse enters at 01:02:42 and the patient gestures to the nurse, looks at the nurse, she puts her head down at 01 :02:50 and she seems to be eating. The seizure seems to be over or ending at 01:02:59, and then the patient is getting out of bed at 01:04:29, but she seems to be confused and the nurses are trying to get her back into bed.
The remainder of the seizure detections were artifact. In particular in sleep sharp waves were noted, including right mid to anterior temporal region, T1 with some polyspike and slow wave activity, T6. Of note, epileptiform activity was not as quite prominent and at times there is a T6 train of smaller triangular shaped waves.
HR: 100 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG monitoring due to:
1. Three complex partial seizures, not all of which were adequately localized by scalp EEG. One of them was very poorly localized, the second in wakefulness seems to come from the right hemisphere, and third in sleep out of the left.
2. Interictal epileptiform activity from either hemisphere, but most prominently right posterior temporal, although left anterior temporal, T3, and bifrontal regions were noted.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports a highly epileptogenic brain with multiple areas, temporal and extra temporal, which produce interictal epileptiform discharges. The patient seemed to have a prolonged aura for the seizures, which occurred in wakefulness, suggesting that additional intervention and evaluation when she is not pregnant might be useful.



