CLINICAL HISTORY: 14 year-old female with epilepsy for the last year, history of
hydrocephalus, with a shunt placed at birth. Former full term spontaneous vaginal
delivery weighing 5 pounds 11 ounces. Currently has staring episodes lasting 2-5
seconds occurring 3-6 times per week.
MEDICATIONS: Tegretol
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in lab using standard 10-20 system
of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. This is an awake and drowsy record for
a child who appears quite drowsy.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Background EEG demonstrates a posterior
dominant rhythm ranging from 7-10 hertz. The overall organization is abnormal for a
child of this age. There is excess theta. There also appears to be an asymmetry in
terms of faster frequency with greater faster frequency activity in the right frontal region
compared to the left. Occasional posterior slowing is observed. In some portions of the
record, there is shifting asymmetry and there is more alpha frequency in the left
frontocentral region than the right. A clinical seizure occurs at 09:51. The child seems to
be drifting off to sleep. A burst of very high amplitude frontally predominant 3.5 hertz
activity with activity greater than 200 microvolts is observed. This generalized burst is
10 seconds in duration. The child is given a test word prior to the seizure which she
does not recall. Prior to the discharge, the background EEG demonstrates a drowsy
pattern and the overall discharge appears to be symmetric and generalized. The
technologist serves to alert the patient with a 1 0-second seizure. A second seizure
occurs out of sleep at 09:53. This is again 10 seconds in duration and is followed by
arousal. A third seizure occurs at 09:54, again as the child seems to be drifting off to
sleep and this one demonstrates slower spike and wave activity with 16-second
duration. This is again a frontally predominant discharge with slower spike and wave
activity and poly spike activity. Photic stimulation does not elicit a driving response.
HR: 104 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. In wakefulness, a background which is somewhat disorganized for age.
2. Shifting asymmetry with asymmetries in both faster frequency activity and delta.
3. Seizures lasting 10-16 seconds in duration with generalized spike and wave
activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG is diagnostic of an epileptiform process. Despite
the history of brain injury, the seizures themselves are generalized, symmetric and
could be seen in inherited mechanism for epilepsy, not in the neurologic syndrome
above.



