CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 69-year-old woman with a history of anxiety disorder, cognitive impairment, and previous evaluation for non-epileptic seizures characterized by shuffling of her legs and a feeling as if her legs are going out beneath her. Status-post bilateral knee replacements, now experiencing spells that she feels are related to her anxiety, but her daughter feels that are epileptiform seizures with nine events prior to this recording.
MEDICATIONS: Seroquel, Carbamazepine, Lipitor, others.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is aware of feelings as if she might be about to have a spell, but has no actual spells. Practice push buttons are performed by her clinical team.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is slow for an adult of this age and somewhat poorly organized with approximately a 7 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, excess background theta, and occasional bursts of shifting arrhythmic delta. The arrhythmic delta is at times more prominent from the left. Sleep is characterized by the appearance of prominent, irregular delta and what almost appears to be some periodic complexes in the background from either hemisphere. They are sharply contoured, and there is also an element of EKG artifact, but this prominent pattern with arrhythmic delta activity appears to have some underlying sharp waves noted within, although they have metabolic rather than specifically epileptiform appearance throughout much of the sleep recording.
HR: 60 to 75 BPM.
Long-Term EEG Monitoring, March 13, 2007
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. During this portion of the record, the patient experiences no clinical symptoms. She has difficulty keeping her EEG electrodes on.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness the background EEG is slow with primarily a theta frequency posterior dominant rhythm and a theta frequency background. Little sleep is recorded and, unfortunately, the sleep that is recorded is also compromised by loss of electrodes.

HR: 60BPM.
IMPRESSION: This 48-hour, continuous video EEG monitoring session is remarkable for:
1. Generalized background slowing.
2. Sharp waves in this sharply contoured background, best defined in sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: No clear clinical events were recorded for this individual. As discussed with the patient, a typical pattern for her has been cessation of events when she comes to the hospital, and the patient concurred that the symptoms that she was having might have been panic rather than epileptiform seizures.




