CLINICAL HISTORY:  Prolonged status epilepticus in the field.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.  Ativan, others
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitor was performed in ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was intubated and poorly responsive, although when stimulated he was arousable. During this section of the record, the patient was weaned from the ventilator.  This is a technically acceptable bedside recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial hours of EEG demonstrates a diffusely slow record with a periodic sharp wave noted from the right hemisphere maximum in the mid temporal region with a generous field of spread.  As the recording continues between 11 a.m. and 1 a.m., the activity demonstrates some waxing and waning, the periodicity on some occasions increases to about 1 per second.
Seizures: Intermittent electrographic seizures with build up of right temporal sharp waves over 27-35 seconds was noted, without clinical change.  Example:  11:30 PM with nurse at bedside without clinical signs or symptoms, there is a build up of epileptiform activity.  This may have approximated the time at which they attempted to wean the patient.  In addition, between 12 a.m. and 1 a.m., the epileptiform activity is more continuous, although not significantly waxing or waning.  As the recording continues, by 4 a.m., the patient is increasingly responsive, despite the sharp waves noted from the right.  Tactile stimulation at 5 a.m. produces an attenuation of the epileptiform activity.
Over the course of the day on the 30th, the patient is increasingly awake, is extubated.  When he is sleeping, the epileptiform activity is present, but without the same periodicity.
By the afternoon of the 30th, intermittently, a posterior dominant rhythm is identified in wakefulness.  In drowsiness or sleep, the right temporal sharp waves reappear, but there are no awake seizures
Heart rate 90 to 110 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 1st 24 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring is remarkable for:
Periodic complex, which did become more continuous over in the evening hours between 11 p.m. and 1:30 p.m.
Subclinical, electrographic seizures noted earlier in this epoch, in sleep
The appearance of an overall improvement of the epileptiform activity within an awake state without intervention.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The initial sections of the EEG are a very irritative and postictal pattern, and there are sections of the record as described above with a pattern compatible with subclinical seizures. Seizures are resolving; however, the overall pattern remains highly epileptogenic and EEG recording will continue.





