CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 19-year-old, deaf mute and blind female.  Patient admitted for non-responsiveness and respiratory distress secondary to aspiration pneumonia.  Past history significant for shaking baby syndrome, severe cognitive impairment with spasticity and occasional seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Lamictal, Clorazepate, Keppra, Librium, and Miralax.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside in the Pediatric Unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. There are practice push buttons, but buttons are never pressed for any of the patient’s seizures.  Complicating interpretation of this record is the problem that the patient receives multiple different pulmonary therapies, all of which have some sort of cyclic mechanism producing huge amounts of artifact in the EEG, which is interpreted by the spike detector as a seizure.
There is a report that seizures occurred, but unfortunately these are not documented.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is markedly abnormal, low voltage, and relatively featureless.  There are occasional sharp waves.  Sleep/wake cycles are difficult to define.
SEIZURE: DATE 10/20/04, TIME 20:07:08: The patient is in the room with the nurse.  The EEG demonstrates a low voltage pattern.  The patient is motionless.  At 20:07:14, the left arm rises and begins to jerk.  The right arm follows at 20:07:16.  Both arms are elevated.  There is almost a fluttering, but there is tonic posturing of the extremities.  The EEG is almost completely obscured by muscle artifact, which is beta frequency.  By 20:07:38, however, characteristic paroxysmal frequency evolution can be identified and the activity transitions to more of a theta, 5 to 7 Hz pattern.  The patient gags at 20:07:43 and the right hand is motionless and the left hand shaking.  This shows classic clonic slowing.  The patient has vocalizations.  Her ventilator monitor triggers at 20:07:53 and the seizure is essentially over at 20:07:53.  After the seizure, there seems to be attenuation of the activity from the right hemisphere and ongoing fast activity from the left hemisphere.  The child has eye opening at 20:11.  At this time, there is some asymmetry with an ongoing pattern of overall suppression from the right.
SEIZURE: DATE 10/21/04, TIME 08:59:28: The patient is in her room.  She doesn’t move, but occasionally there is eye movement.  Within four seconds a very subtle change in the EEG is seen and the child has some high amplitude eye opening and eye closure.  There is very subtle activity seen for 4 or 5 seconds in the right centroparietal region with low voltage theta and then more clearly defined 5 Hz theta from the right parietal occipital region.  This goes on to demonstrate frequency evolution with increasing intensity of fast activity and some underlying delta in the same region.  At 08:59:50, the child has very subtle movements of the left arm, which disappears by 08:59:56.  There is just a brief tremor in the left arm.  The EEG changes described initially have disappeared by 09:00:12, but there is some subtle delta picked up in the right parietal/occipital region, as well as some focal sharp waves picked up at T4/T6, gradually building up at 09:00:32.  By 09:02, the EEG has returned to its baseline and unfortunately there is EKG artifact in both temporal regions.
Both of the above seizures seem to be emanating from the right hemisphere.
HR:  120 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal 48-hour video EEG due to:
Markedly abnormal background with paucity of normal wave forms for an individual of this age.
Sharp waves identified from the left anterior temporal region.
A single seizure identified.  Although there is a significant amount of muscle movement artifact seen at the beginning of the EEG, the behavior involved the left arm and there was clear focal slowing from the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Additional seizures likely occurred in this 48-hour monitoring, however, due to the use of mechanical devices, which produced artifact as well as the failure to push the button, it is not possible to identify these.  Additional recording with a push button for each and every behavior is necessary to adequately quantify and characterize this patient’s seizures.




