History:	Unknown female was found confused and noted to have two T-C seizures on 5/3/14
lasting 1-2 min. now is unresponsive.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 37 hours from 05/05/2014 to 05/07/14.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
See above.
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
The left hemisphere is almost completely attenuated with some delta slowing seen continuously.
The right hemisphere exhibits a continuous theta frequency background.  Left anterior temporal
sharp waves can be seen intermittently.  Multiple seizures are seen. During the first 9 hours there are
3-5 per hour. The next 10 hours she had about 1-2 seizure per hour. During the last 18 hours of
EEG she only had 3 seizures and was seizure free for 7 hours.  EEG: Sudden rhythmic left
midtemporal delta intermixed with beta which increases in frequency and amplitude. The seizure
remains over the left hemisphere.  Clinical: Patient opens her eyes and looks towards the right
followed by the head and then may exhibit lip smacking and mouth movements.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 84, and due to the pacemaker
there is a marked continuous artifact through the entire record.  Around 12AM on 05/07/2014 the
patient took off her leads.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure
Sharp waves, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked, left generalized
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of multiple left temporal electrographic focal seizures that
improve with time. In addition there is continuous focal slowing and frequent epileptiform

discharges in the left anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a irritable focal
structural lesion in the region. Lastly there is  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


