CLINICAL HISTORY:   73-year-old male status post code and 9:45 on November 15,
20-7 with a baseline EEG on November 16, 2007 demonstrating focal jerking on the right with right eye deviation.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan and Depakote, Vitamin B12 , Vecuronium at the start of the record.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. Video EEG was employed with seizure and spike detection. This 72 hour continuous LTM study.
There was on clinical history provided, no medication list and no documentation that the
patient's clinical seizures were observed by the team.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  November 16, 2007 to November 17, 2007. As the tracing opens, the patient has been intubated and received vecuronium. The background EEG is quite slow.
Seizure: Time 12:43. The nurse suctions the patient. Following this , nodding and jerking is observed. As the nodding and jerking resolves, no clinical signs or symptoms are observed, but rhythmic repetitive  delta with sharp waves maximum in the left temporal region are observed at 11:44:13. The video is reviewed. There are no clinical signs or symptoms. The activity slows over the course of 5 minutes and is abating by
12:45:19.
Seizure time 17:38. The patient is resting comfortably. Somebody has been in and out of the room as can be heard with some background noise. There is some sharply delta in the T1 and T2. By 17:40, the patient begins to have head nodding and jerking first of the head and then upper extremities and then the lower extremities. The jerking is relatively prolong and is persistent at 17:46. The activity begin to slow by 17:48. It has returned by 19:32. No clinical correlates are observed in association with these symptoms.
By midnight, this pattern seems to have resolved.
The background EEG throughout this section of the record demonstrates a low voltage pattern with some faster frequency activity and some delta. No additional clinical seizures are observed.
November 17, 2007 to November 18, 2007. As the tracing opens, there is a fair amount of muscle artifact observed. Behaviorally, the patient has head turned to the right. It is difficult to determine he if has any jerky at that time and the electrode integrity is quite poor. As the day continues, the background EEG is very low voltage and suppressed. There are problems with electrode artifact at T1 and T2, but no additional seizures are observed. The seizure and spike detector is reviewed and no additional electrographic seizures are observed although at times, the quality of the data is suboptimal.
Date November 18, 2007 to November 19, 2007. Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at bedside in ICU. There are no clinical notations regarding seizures. Intermittently, the caliber of the EEG data is suboptimal.
The background EEG is low voltage, continuous with some artifact in the T1 and T2 electrodes. No epileptiform features are seen in this section of the record.
HR: 	84 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This inpatient video EEG monitoring was remarkable for seizures in the first 24 hours of the record some of which were clearly apparent with jerking. Others were characterized by left temporal rhythmic activity. Additional clinical information is essential to known how and why this seizures stopped.
CLINICAL  CORRELATION:In terms of the overall background, this pattern is worrisome following cardiac arrest due to the significant degree of background slowing, however, this is of unclear clinical significance in that we so not know what medications were employed at this time. Encouragingly, the patient is starting to show eye movement and spontaneous movement at the close of the recording.
LONG-TERM MONITORING  11/19/2007- LAST DAY LTM-07-108
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring is preformed at bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel as EKG. This is a digital video EEG with seizure and spike detection.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing opened, the background EEG is slow voltage, relatively featureless and slow. The patient does have eye movement.
The patient received a bath at 11 a.m. No spontaneous movements are observed, eye opening is observed the background EEG is continuous with beta frequent activity and lower voltage delta and theta. There is clear variability and there is a bit more beta activity  in the frontal regions.
As the recording continues, very low voltage pattern is observed. There is a small bifrontal sharp wave observed, left greater than right. This reaches the maximum of 40 microvolts. This is primarily seen when the patient is drowsy.
HR: 	84 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This 6 hour continuous video EEG monitoring is remarkable for:
1. 	Markedly abnormal background.
2. 	Occasional frontal sharp wave, left greater than 4.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: For an individual now 4-5 days status post anoxic event, this is an encouraging pattern and is continuous with reactivity and variability. The epileptiform activity has abated considerably. No seizure were recorded. This is a technically unsatisfactory recording because there is no historical information and no listing of patient's medications. Additional stimulation of the patient would have been helpful as well.


32
3
2




