History:	29 yo p/w myoclonic status epilepticus and hx of mitochondrial disorder; pneumonia
aspiration; resp failure; hypoxia; high blood pressure. pmhx: Dementia, HTN, SZ
pshx: stab wound to abdomen, vagal nerve stim.
Medications:	Vimpat, Ativan (8mg) , Versed, Ceftriaxone, Clindamycin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 14 hours from 03/25/2015 to 03/26/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta
and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  There
is intermixed beta while awake. With sleep the background appears to become more intermittently
suppressed and with a more predominant diffuse delta slowing.  No normal sleep architecture was
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent bifrontal and central maximal polyspikes that have a large
field. These at times lasr for about a second and are followed by a more prominent diffuse slowing.
There is also about 20 seizures per hour during the majority of the record. With the exception of
about 4 hours where the patient is awakened and the background improves slightly in frequency.
Seizure on EEG: Sudden diffuse beta followed by attenuation and then muscle artifact with sudden
stop. This is followed by frontal predominant rhythmic delta for about 3 seconds. This last from 5 to
15 seconds.  Clinically the patient flexes his neck and lift both arms in a bicycle handle position
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 108
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus
Polyspikes
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  status epilepticus with very generalized seizures. In
addition there is severe  diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
present.and in a tonic fashion.





